## Bloggen
#### Create static HTML/CSS blogs with Flask
----------
A very simple blog generated by Bloggen and deployed to an AWS S3 bucket: [www.acebloggen.com][1].

Bloggen dynamically generates blogs by converting Markdown files into webpages. To generate the static files, simply clone this repo and then run the following command within the main folder:

    $ python bloggen.py build

If you want to send it to an AWS S3 bucket, read the instructions below regarding <code>aws_settings.py</code>, then run this:

    $ python bloggen.py deploy

### Please note: this was built with Python 3.4. If you're running 2.x, create a virtualenv with the following commands:

    $ virtualenv -p python3.4
    
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt
    
<code>requirements.txt</code> is included as part of the repo.

You can customize Bloggen yourself by working with the following files:

#### <i>bloggen.py</i>
Contains the codebase for turning the Markdown files into HTML files. There are two variables you'll need to change in order for it to work correctly: <code>FREEZER_BASE_URL</code> and <code>author</code>.  <code>FREEZER_BASE_URL</code> will append a base URL to the atom feed that is generated along with your static site, and <code>author</code> will append an author name to each post.

Other than those two, I would not recommend changing this file unless you have experience working with Python.

#### <i>aws_settings.py</i>

This is a file that does not come packaged with Bloggen - you will need to create it yourself. You don't absolutely <i>need</i> to use it, but it will allow you to deploy directly to an Amazon S3 bucket (which will in turn save you money, since buckets can be had for free). You'll need to create three variables within this file: <code>AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID</code>, <code>AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY</code> and <code>DOMAIN</code>. The first two are self-explanatory and should be the access key ID and secret access key to your Amazon AWS account. The third is simply your domain name, minus <b>www</b> (<b>testing123.com</b>, for example).

Note: this isn't a required file, especially if you aren't planning on using AWS at all. But you will have to manually deploy the files and change the <code>deploy</code> function in <code>bloggen.py</code>.

#### <i>posts/</i>
First, check out the file <code>bloggen.md</code> and look at how the file is formatted. There are instructions within it about how the Markdown/YAML system works, so I won't repeat the instructions here. These files will end up becoming

#### <i>templates/base.html</i>

<code>base.html</code> contains the Jinja template that will dictate how your other templates will look. You will need to style this and structure it so that it looks the way you want it to. I've included a block for Google Analytics, so be sure to change the variables within that to reflect your website's Analytics account.

	    
Brought to you by [acecodes.net][2].


  [1]: http://www.acebloggen.com
  [2]: http://www.acecodes.net